September 12, sitting in almost central Oklahoma
City in the living room with Elaine Bezell
Thompson, going to record her recollections of
the teens and part of the 20s at Texas A&M. Now, Mrs.
Thompson, would you respond just briefly so we'll
be sure your mic is working? Well, I'll try. That's
enough. We've unearthed a few. Oh, look at that.
Mrs. Thompson, would you describe the background
of your parents? Introduce us to your parents.
Where did they grow up? When did they get to Texas?
Well, they were... See, I'm already not sure
about... My father... I know he lived, he was born
in Washington County, I think. And his father died
when I was under four years old. And my grandmother
came and lived with us all the rest of her life. She
lived to be 91. And so I don't know much about the
background of his... Were they farmers? They were
farmers. And she was very ambitious for him. She
was determined that he was going to have a fine
education. And
so they had good years and bad years. That's the way
that Brazos bought them farming country-wise. It
was either wonderful or bad. And so they had good
years. Where did your mother grow up?
My mother was born in Tennessee, and I don't know
anything about that far background. Where did
your parents meet? Navasota.
After his first... was superintendent of schools
in Navasota. And then when I was four, we moved away
and went to Denton. Denton, Texas. Did your dad
grow up in a church-going family? Yes. Do I dare ask
which? Well,
his family were Baptists, and he married my
mother, who was a Methodist. And all through the
years, they stayed with their same denomination.
Why they didn't combine, which would have been a
lot better, you know, because... But after we got
to A&M, you know, so different there. Now, I don't
know whether to go ahead with that part about
the... Sure, sure. Guy and Hall, I'm sure you're
probably familiar with Guy and Hall was built...
while we were down there. And the way things were,
every Sunday morning, the whole cadet corps, with
all the full uniforms and everything, marched
into Guyon Hall for the church service. And my
father didn't like that at all. He said there was
every denomination, every race, in the borough in
that full auditorium for all those boys to march in
there and sit down and go to sleep the ones that were
not interested and he didn't think that was good
and so he came up with the idea that he was going to
have a good speaker he knew so many ministers out
over the country that were fine well just good
reputations and all and they'd have a different
one every Sunday they had one of each you know one
time it would be Methodist maybe the next time it
would be a Jewish robbery it was a strange way of
doing things but that It was the only way he could
see that they could get everybody some time. Did he
help select the individual speakers? He did that.
He did that? He did that. And he knew so many of them
because my brother and I went on summer vacations
with him after after my brother and I were born, we
went every summer to someplace where he was
getting another degree. And every Sunday we went
to a church because he knew all about the minister.
And, oh, he'd either read books about him. He was
well informed on. So I don't know exactly. I was not
old enough to know how that turned out, but it was a
very unusual way of doing that. And as far as you
remember, there were Protestant, Catholic, and
Jewish speakers. Well, just whoever was, well,
yes, I think so, yeah. As far as you recall, how was
your father selected to be the president at the
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas?
How was he selected? I don't know how he was
selected. And you were four years old when they got
there? Is that right? I was born in 1904, and I was
four years old when we went to Denton. I was living
in Navasota, because I was born in Navasota, and my
mother's family all in Navasota. All right, so you
were then 11 when you and your family moved to
college. Is that what it was called then? Uh-huh.
Yeah. All right. Do you remember your first
impressions of A&M? Well, see, I got four years in
Denton first. So that's where I started the
school, in Denton. And I'm not just sure. I had a
feeling I was about fourth grade or fifth grade
when I came, when we moved down there. I'm not good
on dates about when that was. Did you enjoy getting
to college, to A&M, as a little girl? Well, it was,
you know, it was different than when I was in high
school, of course. but but i had um the dean of
agriculture lived right down the street from us
and his their daughter was lily best kyle kyle
field you know and so she was my best friend on the
campus when we were children we played together
And she's about the only little girl that I
remember playing with because she was so close.
What do you remember about the Kyle family? We
don't know much about Dean Kyle in terms of
personality. Well, I don't remember anything
except mother and father. Was he a nice, pleasant
man? Oh, yes. Yes, the family was really very nice.
What did two little girls do to, what kind of fun and
games did you all play? We played dolls.
I can even remember, it didn't have to be a real
doll. We all had dolls. We had plenty of toys, but we
had lots of dolls. But I can remember one time, she
and I were, After the woodpile was, of course, they
all had wood fire places. And we took just a log of
wood and we put baby clothes on it. And that was
something I hadn't thought of in a long time, but I
remember doing that. Do you remember any mischief
that you all ever got into? I don't remember any. I
don't think we did. So mother didn't have to spank
or anything like that? No, I'm sure maybe she did,
but I don't remember. Describe the president's
house where you all lived. Well, it was a real
old-fashioned house, and I just loved it. Well, I
say I loved it, but it was just home to me. I've lived
in three presents homes from the time I left
Navasota till I got married. How
lovely, what a nice picture of it. Does that look
like it? Oh, it's exactly like it, sure. Where was
your room? Well, it was one of these upstairs front
ones. I don't remember. I can see my grandmother
had one of them. My mother and father had the first
one. My grandmother, and then I had my, thanks for
having his. So we pretty well filled up the house.
Did you all ever play any games out on those
porches?
No, I don't think.
The downstairs porch, we probably did.
And I'll tell you, I don't know whether this is at
least a bit interesting, but the thing I remember
about the downstairs porch, they had greenery.
shrubs and things across the front that sort of hid
the where the chairs were behind it and I had a
parrot and the parrot was really a good talker and
then I'd put the parrot up in the just on one of the
little branches and I'd sit back in the chair and
then the cadets would walk by and this parrot would
say, hello, like that. And I would just be so
embarrassed I could hardly stand. Now that's the
kind of things you remember when you're 95 years
old. And those are the good things that we want. I
can't see if that is anything that could possibly
help you. Do you remember where the parrot came
from? No. How long did you have it? I don't know but
it was so funny when he sang grand opera and I did all
kinds of things. We had it for quite a long time. Did
he have a name? What was his name? Polly, what did
you say?
Polly Parrott. a black couple that worked for us.
See, I'm just going from one something to another.
Henrietta and Ulysses S. Grant McElroy.
So
this parrot was just called Henrietta,
Henrietta,
Grant. Where did they live? Did they live there?
Had quarters out in the back. In the back? Were
there other black families living anywhere
nearby? No,
because, let's see, I have to clear myself now.
Yes, it would be there. The reason I hate to switch
off, if you can cut it off, You know, around
college. And they, for your family, she was the
maid and cook? Yep. And what did he do? Well, he
drove the car. Okay. My father, I will have to
admit, they never did learn to be expert at driving
cars. The children will say... Y'all moved there
in 1915. Did y'all, you went, I presume, went on the
train? Oh, sure. Well, I guess, let's see. From
Denton to College Station?
Well, we had a car somewhere along in there, but I
can't remember just when the What kind of cars were
they, do you remember? I don't remember the name of
it, but I remember certain things about the cars. I
remember my father had to open the front lights up
and light them and close them back up again, some
kind of gas lights or something. And they were all,
of course, open, and then they had canvas little
curtains that would come down to keep the rain out
if you were lucky and of course the roads were
nothing but slippery mud we used to drive down to
navasota on weekends to visit the relatives and
and it was as if it rained it was a pretty bad where
when you got to to a m where did you go to school
Brian. And how did you get to Brian? On a streetcar,
trolley. All the campus children got on the
trolley and we went to grade school, all up,
graduated from high school that way. So did you
graduate from Brian High School? What year? 21.
21. Do you remember how many were in the senior
class? I've got my yearbook right there. Ralph,
would you want to get the yearbook? Describe what
you recall about Bryan High School. Was it fun? Did
you enjoy it? Yes. I'm telling you, when you're at
that age, high school age, and living in a
situation like that, You always kind of had your
eyes on the freshman A&M students. And it was kind
of tough on the high school boys. But we had a good
football team. And of course, some of us were not
allowed to date the A&M boys anyway. So until
later. Was that a rule for you? Were you not allowed
to date the A&M boys? Well, not until I was a certain
age. And then I don't think I had any dates with
anybody until I was 16, which seems about right to
me, I guess, maybe.
But it was kind of a touchy thing with the high
school boys.
I bet this is the annual. Do you want to just see what
it looks like?
Let's see. I'm turning the pages now. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32,
34, 36, 37,
Looks like about 42 or 43 in your senior class. Now
when you finished high school, where did you want
to go to college? A&M. Where did your family want
you to go to college? Well, they didn't want me to go
to college at A&M. My father had great
expectations, but I was never the great student.
My brother was, but I had a lot of other interests.
You'd think I was a frivolous butterfly, if you
hear me tell about my fun I had at Texas A&M. But I
just loved everything about Texas A&M. How did you
persuade your parents to allow you to attend A&M?
Well, they just gave in. They didn't complain too
much. I never did want to ever go away from home.
so they they just let me do it of course my father had
me taking every course in the world high school i
took four years of latin and about four years of
well all the math and english and ancient history
and and then went to oh and physics And then when I
got to A&M, that first, I'd had two years at A&M. And
he had me take chemistry and analytics at A&M,
because I had trigonometry before in high school.
So I really took
all the, he had great, education ambition, I
guess, for me. But I just didn't want to go off to
school. Did your father believe in equal
education for women? Did he think women should be
educated as well as men? Well, yes, I'm sure he did,
but he didn't mean for them to be a Texas A&M
man. Of course, yeah. I had heard that he certainly
did. Oh yes, he sure would.
When you enrolled as a freshman at A&M, do you know
how many other coeds there were that year? I think
Helen Dowdy was one of them, and I think she moved to
go to live with her uncle and aunt who were on the
campus, and I had an idea that she wanted to do the
same thing. I never did know for sure that that was
right, but she lived with them for those two years.
Have there been any women enrolled before you and
her?
Yes, and I don't know whether there was...
I have a yearbook over here, too, I thought you
might be interested in seeing. 1922.
And it seemed like somewhere in one of those books
that it said that there was some talk about
women... Did... When you took classes, you were in
a room full of young men. Where did a young lady sit?
Just right in there. You might go in and sit down,
and the boys might come in and sit all around the
room. But we just sat in there like the rest of them.
Thank you. Were there any rules? that your father
gave you as an undergraduate about what you could
and could not do while you were an Aggie? No, they
just treated me just like they did when I was in high
school, I think. Was it okay then for you to date A&M
students? Oh, yes, yes. Tell me about some A&M
social events. Well, they had absolutely
super-duper balls, two of them, Thanksgiving Hop
and the Ross Vaughn Tear Hop. And I mean, it was
decorated to clear out the mess hall. to take every
bit of furniture out except for the line of chairs
for all the big number of chaperones, the faculty
people that they would invite to be chaperones.
And they
always had a grand march.
Were the young men, did you always have a date?
Sure, oh yes. Did you then have a dance card where
you signed? Yes, a dance card, you fill that out.
Where did they get their dates? The, pardon me, the
faculty. people had kept the girls, and they could
invite their girls from home, and the hostess
would invite them to come, and the parents let them
come down and stay with those people. The faculty
houses were just full, and in our house, we've had
as many as six or eight stay at our house. Did young
ladies come down from CIA? They just came down from
all over the state. And I presume more often than
not came on the train? Yes. At those dances, was
there any alcohol served? Not supposed to be at
all. Of course, there was never any drink, and
you'd get expelled if you got caught more than once
or twice, I think. I don't remember exactly about
that. But once in a while, there would be somebody
at the dance that would tag you. Of course, it was
tagging. Oh, just so much, because there were so
many stags. And if anybody would tag me that had had
something to drink, one of my friends was just
right there. Describe what a young lady would have
worn to one of those balls. We had real fancy
clothes and real high heels to dance in. My
children heard me say I didn't know that people
weren't just supposed to have hurt feet, hurting
feet. Because I always had hurting feet from
dancing. Now those dances, and this will surprise
you probably if you don't already know it. The
dance would last from 9 to 12. Then you'd have an
hour off. And you'd go to these different places.
My mother always had a little midnight supper,
light, something, you know. And the boys and girls
would take part in that. And then when the hour was
up, or exactly how long it was, we'd all go back to
the mess hall and dance till about three. and you
know why my feet hurt
but it was simply wonderful it was just the most fun
of anything in this world and the ross volunteer
hop was in the other part of the year and these were
held in was sebisa hall built yet sebisa dining
hall yes so they were held there Well, there was a
great big mess hall that all the student body ate in
there. Where did the orchestra come from? Well, of
course they had an orchestra right there, but I
don't remember now whether they had outside
orchestras come in or not. These beautiful
dresses, did you all buy them or did someone make
them for you? Well, mine were mostly bought. We'd
go to Houston to shop. And that's where I got my high
heel shoes. And was a Houston trip an all day or an
overnight trip?
I believe we'd spend the night in the hotels. I've
forgotten exactly how far it is to Houston. Do you
remember? About 100 miles. 100 miles, yeah. No, I
think we went down there to shop. Bryan was not a
very good place to shop, as you can imagine. And did
your parents have you take piano, ballet? I took
piano lessons from the time I was a little girl
until I... but got to Norman and even took piano
lessons at OU. When you were at A&M, who was your
teacher? Miss Friley. Friley. Is that name
familiar to you? No, ma'am, it's not. Mr. Friley,
or Dr. Friley, I've forgotten which we called him,
he went from A&M to become president of another
school. And I used to know the Frileys and my
family, but I can't remember which school it was.
What did he teach? Do you remember? I don't
remember that either. I don't remember anything
except the music teacher. So she had a number of
piano students? Did you take ballet or any other? I
took the Scottish fling.
I don't know why, and that lasted about a year, but
And I wasn't carried away with that. But of course,
you know, the Ross Volunteers, I just thought that
was the most wonderful group. And I guess they
still have that fancy drill they do. And people
would come from everywhere.
cars, it was all cars at that time, a lot of people
had cars. And they would come, you'd have cars all
around the field and they'd get out and they were
just wonderful. Did the Ross Volunteers wear
those spotless white uniforms? Oh, you bet. Yes,
they had the swords and everything. I just loved
all that military. When a group of young people
wanted to go out on a picnic, wanted to go somewhere
off campus, where were the favorite places? The
Brazos River. And they'd even swim in it, and I
wouldn't get in that water. But
I can remember we'd have, oh, there'd be some kind
of a truck. We'd get in a truck and one of the boys
would have a guitar.
And we'd go down there and have picnics and swim if
he wanted to. What kind of a bathing suit did the
young lady wear then? It was not like you have now.
They were just one piece, but a cover-up.
Bare legs? You didn't have the long skirt. Was that
your mother's? Oh, well, no. Part of the time, I
think we got to where we had bare legs, but I think my
mother sewed long black stockings onto them,
bathing suit. Now, did a typical young lady in that
era ever smoke?
You know, I don't even remember about that. I think
you would have if you had. Yeah, I think so. But it
would be the rare thing if they did. Now,
this is prohibition time. Where did the, if there
was any alcohol, where did they get it? I have no
idea.